[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Write a function exp
that evaluates simple array expressions.
A simple array expression is an array in
which the first element is a function and
the remaining elements
are the arguments to that function.
So if we pass that array, mul, five,
11 to the EXP function, it will return 55.
And if we simply pass
a number to the EXP function.
It will just return that number, okay?
>> Speaker 2: Binary?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
but some are binary function.
It turns out it will also work
with unary functions, but-
>> Speaker 3: What's the next?
Right, exp.
Sorry.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
Yeah, you're right.
>> Speaker 3: And
it's always right?
>> Douglas Crockford: Could be two or
three.
>> Speaker 3: Two or
three, okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: But
you don't care about that.
Assume three, it's always.
>> Speaker 3: Sure.
>> Douglas Crockford: Next year it'll
be n, but.
>> Speaker 3: Right,
okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: But
this year it'll be three.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, here is exp.
Exp takes a value and it returns
something if the value is an array.
It returns a result of
calling the first element,
passing the next two
elements as arguments.
Otherwise, it returns the value.
So, who got something that works?
Very good.
Wanna do one more?
You think you've got it in you?
It's gonna be based on this one, so
if anybody didn't get this one,
get it now cuz you're gonna need it.
Okay ready?
Last problem.
Finish Strong OK so.
Modify x P.
to evaluate nested array expressions and
that's that or expression is.
Just like the simpler expressions except
any of the arguments can also
be a nested array expression.
So in this case, we've got
a hypotenuse thing going on here.
And if we pass that nested
array structure to exp,
it will now evaluate the whole thing and
come up with 5.
>> Douglas Crockford: Everybody got it?
[BLANK_AUDIO ]
>> Speaker 3: Getting one parameters is
an array, can that pass of,
pass to if it's evaluated.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yes.
Exactly.
So let's take a look at EXP.
So the only change that
I made was I called EXP
on each of the arguments
before we use them.
That's it.
And so, recursion ends up doing all
the work, which is really really nice.
Anytime you're dealing with
nested data structures
Recursion is usually the ideal
way to deal with that.
So one of the nice things that this
function illustrates is just how powerful
function systems can be.
That this little function
in it is a little function
Implement most of a programming language.
Anyone recognize what language this is?
List, yeah in list they use
parents instead of brackets and the commas
are optional otherwise this is Lisp.
It's clearly not the whole language, but
it's an interesting part of the language.
And one of the reasons why people who
do Lisp act the way they do is because
they can do stuff like this really,
really fast, really, really easily.
It's just,
you compare that to implementing
a system to do one of our languages.
And it's just a completely
different thing.
So I hope you all enjoy this.
Today was grueling but
you came out, does anybody feel
like their brain got bigger today?
Anyone feeling that?
So before I send you home obviously
you're going to need some homework right?
So let's get to the homework.
The homework problem is write
a function add G that adds for
many invocations until it
sees an empty invocation.
When you've got an empty invocation when
you receive undefined as an argument.
So in this case if you pass nothing
to add G, it will return undefined.
If you pass two and then nothing.
It will return 2.
If you pass 2 and then 7 and
then nothing, it will return 9.
If you pass 3 and then 0, then 4,
and then nothing, it will return 7.
And if you pass 1 and then 2 and
then 4 and then 8 and then nothing,
it will return 15.
So I'll give you a hint.
This problem is going to involve
a function returning itself,
which is something you may
have never encountered before.